Rework an-introduction-to-iota.md (#133)
iota-community/iota-wiki: docs/learn/about-iota/an-introduction-to-iota.md

Blockchains and the Tangle both fall under the same category of distributed ledger technology (DLT).

The main differences between blockchains and the Tangle are the following:

- In a Blockchain, new transactions can only be attached to a single point (a new block) that follows and is connected to the previous block. This leads to a race and competition for transactions to be part of a new Block.

> - In the Tangle, every user is free to attach new transactions on different parts of the Tangle. This allows many transactions to be attached and processed in parallel, which dramatically speeds up the processing of transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the Tangle, every user is free to attach new transactions on different parts of the Tangle. That way the network allows many transactions to be attached and processed in parallel, which dramatically speeds up the processing of transactions
```

This leads... This can lead... This is also seen...  Let me retry to rephrase this :trollface:

Author: i rewritten it

> - A Blockchain must always select a single leader to attach a new Block to the Blockchain. This can lead to the well-known "Miner race," where only the Miner with the highest computational processing power, or Stakers with the highest stake, have a reasonable chance of becoming a Block-Producer and are allowed to attach new Block and to write their transactions to the Ledger. This is also seen as a form of centralization in Blockchains as you need "middlemen" that process your transactions. Regular users are not allowed to write directly to the Ledger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Blockchain must always select a single leader to attach a new Block to the Blockchain. This can lead to the well-known "Miner race," where only the Miner with the highest computational processing power, or Stakers with the highest stake, have a reasonable chance of becoming a Block-Producer and are allowed to attach new Block and to write their transactions to the Ledger. This is also seen as a form of centralization in Blockchains, as you need "middlemen" that process your transactions. Regular users are not allowed to write directly to the Ledger
```

> - IOTA, in comparison, is a leaderless protocol. Everyone is free to attach transactions as long as they are following the basic layout design of the protocol. There is no need to elect a leader as the Tangle is able to implement new transactions in parallel processing. ANd therefore IOTA removed the middlemen completely from the protocol. This a llows IOTA to proccess transactions very fast and without any transaction fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IOTA, in comparison, is a leaderless protocol. Everyone is free to attach transactions as long as they are following the basic layout design of the protocol. There is no need to elect a leader as the Tangle is able to implement new transactions in parallel processing. And therefore IOTA removed the middlemen completely from the protocol. This allows IOTA to process transactions very fast and without any transaction fees.
```

As a result, requiring validators to do PoW secures blockchain networks by making it difficult to attack, change, or stop. The more miners participate, the more secure the network is.

Producing Blocks as a Stacker in Proof of Stake Blockchain usually requires the staker to own vast amounts of staked tokens. Often only a few selected or fixed Validators are granted to be "Block - Producers". These entities are either pre-defined by the creators of the protocol (a form of centralization), or emerge as validators holding the most significant stake of tokens. Proof of Stake Blockchains do not require enormous amounts of energy wasted for PoW, but therefore only allow the wealthiest participants to write to the Ledger and produce new blocks. 

## **Consensus in the Tangle**

In the Tangle, messages require no fees because the network has no miners or stakers.
In the Tangle, PoW is not used to secure the network. Instead, PoW is used only to discourage spam messages.
To reach a consensus, all IOTA nodes validate messages and use different functions alongside messages in their confirmation.

> Currently messages will only be considered valid if they have a reference to a milestone. These milestones are issued by a special network node - the Coordinator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, messages will only be considered valid if they have a reference to a milestone. These milestones are issued by a special network node - the Coordinator.
```
